README.md, before:

# dotfiles

Good ol' dotfiles.

## Things that need to be done

* Solve the search engine problem (chromium ext, surfraw, something...)
* Automate install
* ~RSS reader~
* ~**MAIL**~
* ~tmux~
* ~Move to zsh from bash~
* ~Add custom pkgbuild for caps2esc~
* ~Add battery/bluetooth support for laptops~

## Symlinks

### Folders

* .zsh
* All directories in .config to their names

### Files

* .tmux.conf
* .zshrc
* .zshenv
* .bashrc (legacy)

## Installs

* ruby and rubygems
* tmux

## OS

These dotfiles should work pretty well with Arch Linux provided you install some
deps (I might be missing some): `zathura, nodejs, npm, rxvt-unicode,
urxvt-perls, zsh, ranger, neovim, feh`.

Keyboard layout is US with altgr-intl option.

## WM

`i3wm` with `i3-gaps`. Bar on top is `polybar`, network is ran by
`NetworkManager`.

## Neovim

I'm using neovim this time. More on this later

## Ranger

Ranger should work pretty well with `neovim`, `zathura` and `feh`.

## Music

`spotify`(AUR) with `playerctl`.

## Mail auth and related

We'll be handling key stuff with `gnupg` and `PAM`. There is a 
[https://github.com/cruegge/pam-gnupg](very nice package) that ties these two
funcionalities together, allowing us to use pam with gnupg and assume the
passwords are known when user is logged in. We can also kill the `gpg-agent`
when screen is locked. Works flawlessly with the instructions.

Commit message:

i3, ranger: Support lock feature and automount external drives.
Automount via udiskie and lock via vanilla i3lock

README.md, after:

# dotfiles

Good ol' dotfiles.

## Things that need to be done

* Solve the search engine problem (chromium ext, surfraw, something...)
* Automate install
* ~RSS reader~
* ~**MAIL**~
* ~tmux~
* ~Move to zsh from bash~
* ~Add custom pkgbuild for caps2esc~
* ~Add battery/bluetooth support for laptops~

## Symlinks

### Folders

* .zsh
* All directories in .config to their names

### Files

* .tmux.conf
* .zshrc
* .zshenv
* .bashrc (legacy)

## Installs

* ruby and rubygems
* tmux

## OS

These dotfiles should work pretty well with Arch Linux provided you install some
deps (I might be missing some): `zathura, nodejs, npm, rxvt-unicode,
urxvt-perls, zsh, ranger, neovim, feh`.

Keyboard layout is US with altgr-intl option.

## WM

`i3wm` with `i3-gaps`. Bar on top is `polybar`, network is ran by
`NetworkManager`.

## Neovim

I'm using neovim this time. More on this later

## Ranger

Ranger should work pretty well with `neovim`, `zathura` and `feh`.

## Music

`spotify`(AUR) with `playerctl`.

## Mail auth and related

We'll be handling key stuff with `gnupg` and `PAM`. There is a 
[very nice package](https://github.com/cruegge/pam-gnupg) that ties these two
funcionalities together, allowing us to use pam with gnupg and assume the
passwords are known when user is logged in. We can also kill the `gpg-agent`
when screen is locked. Works flawlessly with the instructions.

## External drives

External drives are automounted with
[udiskie](https://github.com/coldfix/udiskie), files can then be browsed with
[ranger](https://github.com/ranger/ranger) in `/run/media/$USER`.
